One of the things
you may have noticed that I've started doing, is I've started combining
patterns together. This is going to
be one of the most important concepts
when you want to build really
sophisticated prompts. Is you need to think through how to apply multiple patterns in conjunction with each other in order to solve the problem that
you're dealing with? Rather than just thinking about which pattern can I use
to solve this problem? Instead, what you want
to think about is which pattern will solve
certain aspects of the problem? And how would I combine
those patterns together? We started to see an
example of this with asked for input and
alternative and approaches, asked for input as
a pattern that can be applied to a lot
of other patterns. In this case, we're
applying it in conjunction with ask for their
provide alternatives, and so we have got
alternative approaches. And we've got asked for input and they're being put together to build a prompt that
solving the overall problem. Now, what we're going to see
throughout the remainder of this course is that this is the way we build really
sophisticated prompts, is to think about taking multiple patterns and combining
them in interesting ways. Now, if you think back to
some of the patterns that I introduced in the
course and some of the examples I gave. Now that you know
more of the patterns, you'll probably see
that I've actually been combining patterns all along
in different examples. In gameplay for example, I probably used asked for input and in gameplay I use
probably the persona pattern. So you can see how
putting things together helps us solve
the overall problem. When you're going and
you're trying to tackle some new complicated prompt that you need to
engineer and develop, you want to think about, what is the fundamental
pieces to this problem? And do I have existing
patterns that I know about that I can use to
hopefully tackle all of it, but if I can't tackle all of it, can I use patterns and apply them to as many different
pieces as possible so that your unknown piece
that you really have to start from scratch and
invent something new? That it's as small as possible, that we can start with as
many pieces as possible with a roadmap for them a pattern to apply. That's what we're
going to be doing. Now it may start to seem
more complicated than it is, but at the end of the day, what we're still doing is we're still building up language. We're still writing
in natural language, we're still writing sentences , we're still communicating. We're just thinking
intentionally about the patterns
in our language. And we're thinking about
what are the statements in the organization
of this statements in order to solve the problem. In some ways,
combining patterns is really doing a more powerful
version of programming. We're starting to take different programs are instructions that
we know how to use and put them together in more complex and
sophisticated ways in order to have prompts that
have more power to them, they have more depth to them. Again, don't feel that this
is something you can't do, everybody can do this. At the end of the
day, think about it. You're just describing in
words what you want done. You're still describing in language what you're
trying to accomplish. All this is doing
is helping us think about what should go
into the instructions. If we're going to
use this pattern, it's giving us a
set of commands, a set of statements that we need to include and an
organization for them. If we're going to
use this pattern, we're going to have a set of statements that we're
going to include. Oftentimes, putting
things together is simple as just taking the statements from
each pattern and making sure they all
show up in the prompt. Sometimes it's that simple, sometimes it's more nuanced
and we made need to make sure a certain statement
ends up in a certain place. Like what they asked
for input pattern, we probably always want the ask for input to show up
at the end of the prompt, because otherwise it doesn't
work nearly as effectively. Although putting
patterns together can be a little bit
tricky sometimes if you have to figure out
where things should go, most of the time, it's as simple as putting
the statements together. As we go through the
rest of the course, what I would encourage you
to do is to notice when I'm using multiple
patterns together to solve a problem and to
think about as you're trying to tackle new tasks
with prompt engineering, how to use multiple patterns in conjunction with each other
to solve the problem.