Large language models really
excel at working with text and understanding patterns of language. And a lot of times, text is something
that's really difficult to work with because we tend to have
to have a human go and look at it to do a really
good job of analyzing. We used to need a human to do that now,
we use large language models. But going through and trying to
understand text to manipulate text, is one of the real strengths
of the large language model. The next pattern is called
the semantic filter. So this is basically a filter
that can take in text and remove information from it or
only keep information that has certain meaning or
has a certain qualities that we specify. And so this can be a really useful
pattern for a variety of different cases. Now, I'm going to show it in the case
of taking text and filtering out or removing certain things that we would
like to give rid of from this text. This might be secret information of some
kind it might be removing things that aren't public, it could be all kinds of different things
or removing redundant information. Whatever you need it for, this is a useful
pattern in taking and manipulating text. So let's look at an example of it. So I'm going to start off with a very
simple example of the semantic filter. And I'm going to say, filter this
information to remove all dates and rewrite the text as little as possible to
fix issues caused by the date removals. And then I've pasted in some information
about Vanderbilt University from Wikipedia and in this information,
there's a whole bunch of dates. And so I'm creating a complex filter
that's going to basically take in information, it's going to
remove all the dates and it's also going to transform the
information a little bit to rewrite it. Just in case I'm removing a date and it makes a sentence awkward where
there's obviously something missing. And so I'm going to take in information,
I'm going to remove all the dates and I'm going to slightly
rewrite in order to do this. So I've got the Vanderbilt now Wikipedia
information and by using this pattern, which is to clearly say that
you're going to serve as a filter. So we're going to say,
filter this information. So we're clearly indicating by saying,
filter, we want to preserve but remove,
we're not trying to create new, we're trying to take in information and
filter out or remove. So the pattern is basically
the semantic filter pattern is, we're going to tell it to filter something
and we're going to give it rules, semantic rules, rules about the meaning. And what we're trying to
remove the meaning or the purpose of what
we're trying to remove. So then, what it does is it goes through
and it rewrites all the texts and you notice that it does a pretty good job,
it removes all of the explicit dates. Now, one thing I noticed is that, I might
need to go and rethink my prompt and how to express dates because it says,
founded in the 19th century. And that might be too specific for me
depending on what my meaning of date is. So I think it took a literal
interpretation of it if it's a specific date, so if you go back and look,
it originally said founded in 1873. So it removed the date 1873 and
replaced it by rewriting it, We found it in the 19th century. So it's actually removing information,
but I asked it to rewrite. So it's transforming it a little bit,
but this shows you the power, it's understanding the text, it's understanding
what a date is, it's removing it. And in this case, we're also transforming
it, to rewrite it in some way. Now, let's show you a more interesting
example and where the semantics and understanding of the meaning
of things really gets used. So I'm going to say,
filter the information below to remove any information that helps someone figure
out that the patient has diabetes. First, explain what information
you're going to remove and how it might help someone figure
out that the patient has diabetes, then provide the filtered information. So what I've got below is
a fictitious medical record that describes a patient Jane Doe,
has a number of symptoms. The patient presents to the clinic with
complaints of increased thirst and fatigue for the past two weeks. History of present illness right here,
past medical history down here, medications down here,
allergies, a variety of things. And then I'm going to
actually have ChatGPT go into a semantic filter on this information. So now, let's take a look at
what it's going to remove. So it says, well, the chief
complaint of increased thirst and fatigue should be removed
because increased thirst, polydipsia is a common
symptom of diabetes. The history of present illness
mentions increased thirst and not checked your blood glucose levels. Both of we should be removed because they
are related to diabetes symptoms and management. The past medical history,
includes type 2 diabetes mellitus and I apologize if I'm mispronouncing this
which should be removed because it directly indicates that
the patient has diabetes. The medication Metformin 1000 mg
twice daily should be removed because Metformin is a medication
commonly used to manage diabetes. So this is taking the semantics of, I want things that could give away
that this patient has diabetes. I want them filtered out and removed, so I'm giving some semantic rules about
what type of information to get rid of. It has to understand to some
degree the meaning in the text, or at least know based on
its training data these are things that are commonly
discussed around diabetes. So one way or the other,
it's figuring that out. And then, it goes through and
rewrites the medical record and notice it rewrites the chief complaint B,
to the patient presents the clinic with complaints of fatigue for
the last two weeks. The patient reports that she has been
feeling more fatigued, she dies, any recent weight loss, blurry vision or infections past medical history is
rewritten, the medication is rewritten. And so now, we have a filtering
of what was here before. And so we noticed that like the history,
it removed this, the patient reports that
she has been increasing or she has been experiencing increased
thirst for the past two weeks. So we can use these large language
models to develop powerful semantic filters using
the semantic filter pattern. Now, is it perfect? No, as we've seen,
there can be issues with it and as we've talked about before,
they're not always perfectly repeatable. But as a starting point to help, maybe support a human process that
then looks over it a second time, or to try to help prevent accidental release,
it's just one more check in the system. This is a fairly low cost check
to try to remove extra things, should it be the only check? No, if we're going to filter things out,
particularly for privacy or other reasons where we have information
that we don't want to get out. We should always have other checks in
place because this is not going to be a perfect filter. It's going to have some randomness, it's going to not always
do exactly what we expect. But as a part of another process,
as a component to help, it's a very, very powerful technique. That we could potentially
employ in parallel or in conjunction with other checks,
other types of removals.