The basic thing that
you're going to need to complete this course is a web browser and access to a large language
model like ChatGPT. Now, you can use a variety of different language models
to complete this course, but I'm going to
recommend that you use ChatGPT because all
of the examples have been tested on
ChatGPT and it's also really easy to
get started with. All you'll need is a browser,
an Internet connection, and an account with OpenAI so you can get
access to ChatGPT. Now, the way to do that
is you're going to go to chat.openai.com as you see
in the address bar up here. You will go there and
you'll be presented with a screen to sign up or log in. Now, if you already
have an account on ChatGPT and you've been
using it to write prompts, you can skip this video and
go ahead and move ahead. But if you haven't
done that yet, this video will give you what
you need to get started and understand how you're
going to write prompts and interact
with ChatGPT. You'll go to chat.openai.com
as seen up in the address bar here
and then you'll want to sign up and follow
their sign-up process. Once you're done signing up, what you should see
after logging in is something that
looks like this. Basically, at the bottom, we'll have a message
box where it says send a message where we can type
in a message to ChatGPT, and at the top, you may
have some options for different models to use. Now, I have access
to the plugins, which is a newer thing. If you don't have access to
that, don't worry about it. But you'll want to select model, and I would recommend for most cases using
default GPT-3.5. You can probably use any of the models and sometimes
in the videos you'll be switching between them. There's no particular
reason from that, I probably just default to do what I had in the prior session. But I would recommend GPT-3.5. It's really fast, it typically has higher limits in terms of the number of
requests you can send, it's easier to get
access to typically. I would recommend for
most of the course, unless you have a reason not to, to use default GPT-3.5, so you'll just want to
swap that up at the top. Down here in this bottom
box where I'm typing hello, this is where we type the prompt to the large language model. Whatever we type in here, we can then hit Enter or we
can hit this little "Send" button on the right-hand
side, this little airplane. I'm going to just hit
Send and I've now set a prompt to ChatGPT. That prompt was hello and then the response from
ChatGPT is hello, how can I assist you today? Whenever you see the green icon, that is the output from ChatGPT or the large
language model's output. The blue icon is
going to be your, and it may be a
different colored icon, it may be your profile or something could have slightly different
effects on color. I think it's always blue. But anyways, up here is where you're going
to see your prompt. Then below it will be the
response to your prompt. Then I can say, act as a teacher of a class
on prompt engineering, welcome everyone to the class. Now, I'm writing a more
sophisticated prompt. As you can see, now,
ChatGPT is responding. This was my prompt up here, and I entered that in, and then down here, is the response from ChatGPT. This message box down here is where you're going to
be writing the prompts. What we're going to be
working on is how do we word the things that we're
sending to ChatGPT. How do we come up with
better wordings of the prompts in order to get better output down
here in the green, or how to get more
interesting output, or how to get output that has certain capabilities or
behaviors built into it? That's what we're
going to be doing. On the left-hand
side of your screen, which you don't see in
my screen recording, there's a list of chats that
you've had with ChatGPT, so if you want to go back and pick up on one
of those chats, you can click on them. There's also a new chat
button and this is important. For many of the examples, I would recommend
going and creating a new chat each time we
talk about a new pattern or a new concept and trying out what's being
shown in a new chat. Everything here is
affecting the conversation, so just like if you were
having a conversation with somebody and you
told them something, they might remember it later in the conversation and it can
influence what they tell you. In many of the cases,
it's helpful to have a clean slate for
trying things out, so hitting new chat, so I'm just going
to do that and this is what a new chat looks like. Now, I can go and I have a completely clean slate
and I can try things out. This is what you're
going to be working with throughout the class, you're going to
be using ChatGPT, you're going to be
entering prompts into that send message
box at the bottom, and then you're going to be
looking at the output and learning how to get better
output out in ChatGPT. Now, once you know
how to do this with the web interface with ChatGPT and you understand the concepts behind
prompt engineering, you should be better with all of the large
language models, you have a much better
sense of how to work with all the
different models. Now, some of them may not
be as good as others, may not reason as well, may not respond to certain
patterns or things as well, but we're starting off with
the most well-known example, which just ChatGPT, and more than likely things are going to only build
from here in terms of sophistication and
capability of these models. If you know how to use and write prompts in ChatGPT
using this interface, you'll be able to
write prompts that could then be taken and built into programs or used
with some other tool as well. Know this is a great interface
for getting started and learning about prompts and how the large language
models respond.