Sometimes we know part of the solution
that we need when we're working with a large language and model. So we have a problem and we know some of
the steps or some of the pieces that we want involved in the solution, but
we don't know the full solution. And what we need is the large language
model to help us fill in the blanks, to put together the missing steps. Basically, to complete the recipe. Give us the detailed set of steps that
take the ingredients that we have or the bits of information we know about
how to cook this particular dish and fills in all of the gaps. And so the recipe pattern is a pattern for
doing this. We give the large language model some
goal that we're trying to achieve and we give it the parcel set of steps that we
know that we're going to have to involve in creating the overall sort of solution,
the recipe, the goal, whatever it is. We're going to give it part of what's
needed and ask it to fill in the rest. So this is really a way of getting the
large language model to help us fill up, fill in our gaps in a process or gaps in our knowledge about a series
of steps that need to be taken. So the recipe pattern
can be really useful. And I'm going to show you that our
sort of intuitive shorthand for describing gaps and ways in that we
talk about things that we know are part of a process or
part of a series of steps but we don't know the exact details that
our intuitive way of expressing. That is actually something that the large
language models like ChatGPT can understand. So let's take a look
at an example of this. So we're going to say we're
going to add a feature. So we're going back to our trip planning
application and we're going to say, I will tell you my start and end destination
and you will provide a complete list of stops for me, including places to
stop between my start and destination. So notice what we're doing is
we're providing essentially an incomplete recipe. We're saying here's where I'm going to
start, here's where I'm going to get to, but I need to know what goes in between. And it goes back and it takes one of our
prior examples of going from or actually, it creates its own example of traveling
from Nashville to Atlanta and notices that you're going to go
through Chattanooga on the way. Which is true if you're going to drive
from Nashville to Atlanta, you're probably going to drive through Chattanooga and
it suggests things that you could do, like going to the Tennessee Aquarium
in Chattanooga or Lookout Mountain. So where it gets interesting is if you
remember back to the trip planning application, I taught it,
my own language for describing my trips. And so
I use the meta language creation pattern. Now I'm going to combine the metal
language creation pattern and the recipe pattern to do
something interesting. So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to say Nashville comma zero. So I'm starting in Nashville and
then I'm going to have just dots or let's see, basically dot,
dot, dot, arrow, dot, dot, dot, arrow, Fairhope Alabama 2. So I'm going from Nashville
to Fairhope Alabama. And basically, what I'm signaling
to the model is I want you to complete it,
tell me where to stop in between. And I'm indicating I want to stop twice. I'm willing to make two stops in between,
but I don't know where, you fill in the recipe that gets me from Nashville to
Fairhope and has two stops in between. And it understands this, so dots
are obviously dot dot dot is a natural way that we can express something we
don't know, it understands that and it fills in the recipe. It says we're going to start in Nashville,
Tennessee. No time spent as per your request. I highly recommend spending
time in Nashville, Tennessee. I live here so
all of my trips start with not doing any, not staying in Nashville
because I'm always here. Well, not always, but a lot of the time,
and then it fills in the two stops for us. It fills in Birmingham,
Alabama and Montgomery, Alabama, which are both between Nashville
and Fairhope if you take the most direct route, and then the end
is going to be Fairhope Alabama. So you notice, it's basically understood
the constraints that we placed on it. We said, Nashville comma zero arrow. And so we're using our language,
we're just defining the starting point. We're then saying dot dot dot,
meaning this is something I don't know. It's a blank spot in my template or
my recipe. So you need to fill in this recipe
with where we should stop here. And then arrow dot dot dot,
and I'm saying, here's another blank spot where I don't
know what should go here in the recipe, fill it in and
then arrow Fairhope Alabama. And so it's gone and we're using
the recipe pattern here to get ChatGPT or another large language model
to complete our request. And if we went and we did this again, so
if we said, LA and let's just do one, and then we said, dot, dot, dot, dot,
dot, dot, dot, dot, dot and we'll see how it interprets this because I think
it's unclear to me what it even means. And then we said we're
going to go to New York. Let's see what it interprets this as. And so it now starts giving
us a trip saying, okay, here's where you're going to
start Los Angeles one day. Then you're going to go to Las Vegas,
Grand Canyon, Santa Fe. I'm curious if it'll,
how many stops it's going to have? So you notice that when I did this,
when I had four placeholders here, I'm getting more than four placeholders
in between because I kind of expressed that I wasn't really sure, like I don't
have dot dot dot arrow, dot, dot, dot, Arrow and then I'm there. I just have a whole bunch of dots
which is much more indefinite, which is exactly what I wanted it to do. Interesting to lay on off, up and I didn't
know if it was going to get there, but I was basically expressing,
I'm going to go from LA to New York. I'm going to have a bunch
of stops in between. I don't know what they should be. Plan my trip for me. Here's how long I'm going to stay in LA
and here's how long I'm going to stay in New York, and everybody can argue with
how long I've spent in each place. They're all wonderful places, but it interprets the missing
pieces of my recipe. It probably also knows that I'm going to
need quite a few stops if I'm going to make this a leisurely drive
from Los Angeles to New York. And it fills in a whole bunch of different
places that I could potentially stop along the way in order to have an interesting
trip from Los Angeles to New York, if I run it on a very long
road trip as a vacation. And so this shows you how
the recipe pattern works. You give the large language model,
the goal that you're trying to achieve, the pieces that you know need
to fit into the solution or the steps that have to be there and
where they're going to be placed, and then you ask it to fill in the rest. And you can use ellipses or other types of
things to indicate places where you don't know what's going to be there and you
want it to fill it in, and it'll go and complete the recipe for
you using the recipe pattern.