Sometimes we need the
large language model to ask us questions to really guide the process of solving some
problem that we have or helping us obtain an answer
or an output that we need. We may not know what are all the steps to
achieve that goal. What we'd really like to
do is we'd have to have the large language
model ask us questions. Whenever we want the
large language model to ask us questions, the pattern that we can use is called flipped interaction. The idea behind this is rather than we're going to flip
the interaction rather than us providing questions and the large language
model providing answers. We're going to flip
that and we're going to have the
large language model ask us questions and we're
going to provide the answers. We can do this in a
number of different ways. We can do this to play games, we can do this in order to try to reach some goal like
the large language model keeps asking us
questions until it gets enough information
to achieve some goal. There's a variety of different ways that
you can use this, but this is incredibly
helpful when you don't necessarily know
everything that's needed, or if you want to be tested or quizzed on something anywhere where you don't want to
be in the driver's seat. You want to really be
helping provide information, but you don't want
to be formulating the questions or tasks. Let's take a look at an example of the flipped
interaction pattern. The key to this is we
start off by asking the large language model
to ask me questions. Then we give it some topic that we're going
to have it ask questions on. Ask me questions about
fitness goals until you have enough information to suggest a strength training
regimen for me. When you have
enough information, show me the strength
training regimen. Ask me the first question. Now this is the basic
pattern is you say, ask me questions on
a particular topic, and then it's more helpful
usually if you give some goal. Why are you asking
the questions? Are you trying to
have it quiz you? Are you trying to get a fitness regime like we're in this one and
have a fitness plan, what is it you're
trying to achieve? The more information, the more contexts you can give about what you're
trying to achieve, the better questions
it be able to ask you. Now, other things you can do, or you can tell it how
many questions to ask you, how many questions
to ask at a time. A variety of different things, but one really handy
thing you can do is end the flipped interaction prompt with ask me the first question. One thing that you often want to do is do it one
question at a time. Now sometimes you'd
like to have like 10 questions listed and
you can ask, answer them. One, here's my answer, two, here's my answer, three, here's my answer and you can
certainly do it that way. If you want to get
it all at once and think about it all at once, but a lot of times I like to do it one question at a time. If you want to get that one
question at a time, behavior, usually a really reliable
way of doing that is to say, ask me the first question
at the end of the prompt. We're going to
generate this, that, this plan we essay ask me the
first question and it says, great, let's get started. My first question is, what are your specific
fitness goals? Are you looking to
build muscle mass, increase strength,
endurance, performance, or achieve a particular goal? I go on to say I'm
looking to build explosive power and also prevent patellar tendon apathy from doing jumps on a mountain bike. Now, I don't know if this is a correct pronunciation,
patellar tendon apathy, but this is what I've looked
up as I've started to experience some
pain in my knees at certain times when I've been doing a lot of jumps
on a mountain bike. I looked it up and this seems
to be the reason for it. I'm providing that information because I don't
necessarily know what actually I do know
because that's part of the reason I
picked this one is I can fact check it a
little bit against what I've read on the Internet, but I wanted to generate
a fitness regime for me. This is something that
I've actually been doing is figuring out what
exercises I should do to help out my knee and strengthen so it
doesn't happen again. Then it ask do you have any current or past
medical conditions or injuries that it may affect your ability to participate. Additionally, if you've been diagnosed with this or you're looking to prevent proactively. I give it some information. Then it goes on and ask me how many days per week I can
dedicate and additionally, do you have any access to a
gym or a fitness equipment? I'm specifying I can
work out five days per week for 30-45
minutes at a time. Then we finally get to the
point where it actually generates a full
fitness regime for me. Of what I'm going to
do to work on this. Now what's really interesting is it's gone through it
and it's taken into account the answers from
my earlier questions. I know that because I've
been looking for what are good exercises to help work on this issue with my knee
that I've been having. These are exactly the types of things that you see recommended, like the goblet squat, the split squat is one that
you see a lot of times, a lot of different
types of squats and things are very helpful and these are the types
of things that I see, but it's also taken the overall context
that I'm looking for, weight training and
it's gone and generated the entire weight
training regime. Now notice at the
very beginning, I said when you have
enough information, so I said show me the
strength training regime. This shows another
important power of this prompt pattern this
flipped interaction pattern. Is we give it what
we're trying to achieve and how much
it should ask you. Basically we set the
goal is ask me enough until you have
enough information to show me the training. It ask questions until
it thinks it has enough information and
then generates the output. Now sometimes what
you'll see when you ask questions to large language
model is it'll tell you, well, in order to do this, well, I need to get a bunch of
additional information, or it might generate a generic
initial plan and then say, but if you provide
additional details to me, I might also be able
to do blah blah. What we see here is this is
getting rid of all that. Let's skip that step of
getting something generic or being told that there's not quite enough information to
answer questions for us. Let's just say go
ahead and ask us the questions that you
need until you get there. Now, this can also be used for doing other
things like quizzing and playing games anywhere
where we want to have knowledge in the
large language model drive the creation
of the questions. This is really helpful when it has theoretically
or been trained on knowledge or patterns in
language that will be useful in creating the
questions and are things that we don't possess ourselves. Whenever that's the case, it can probably go in more effectively. Think of questions. If we say, I need a fitness regime and
patellar tendon apathy, I may not know what
are the types of questions that you should
ask somebody who has this. I may not know what are the
types of exercises that are commonly discussed if
you have this condition, but it has been trained and seeing patterns of
language where, when people were discussing
this particular condition, these are the exercises
that were discussed. These were the additional
questions that were asked in order to select exercises and it has access to those patterns from
its training data, then help it to select good questions to design that
appropriate training plan. Whenever you need the
large language model to ask you the questions
or you can think about a customer service
example where you're trying to diagnose
some problem that a customer has or
automate some response. You need to collect information
and then take action. The flipped
interaction pattern is a really powerful prompt
pattern to use to do that.