An interesting property of large
language models is that in many cases, they can actually reason better if they break a problem down into
a bunch of smaller problems. So sometimes they can even reason better
if they explain their thought process. Now, there's a number of sort of
hypotheses about why this might be. But I think intuitively, if we can
think about, a large language model may have seen particular problems
broken down into a series of steps. So if it can go and follow the individual
steps, it will know what to generate next in order to produce the output that's
needed to solve a particular step. Now, that's going to be
discussed later in the course, these ideas of breaking things down. But right now, we can actually
tap into a simple technique, a simple pattern to help us with
automatically breaking things down to try to get better answers
out of large language models. And a simple way to do that is just
to ask the large language model to always take questions or problems and
subdivide them into a series of individual questions or
sub problems that could be useful in answering the overall question or
in solving the overall problem. So we can simply program our
large language model to do this. Now, the cognitive verifier pattern
is exactly for this purpose. What we're going to do is we're going
to tell the large language model, whenever you are asked a question,
follow these rules. Generate a number of additional
questions that would help more accurately answer the question. Combine the answers to the individual
questions to produce the final answer to the overall question. Now again, sort of intuitively,
we can think about this. If we have a generic question or some particular question that we ask
large language model, it can go and tap into what it's seen, the patterns
it's seen in the training data to see what are other questions that
are often related to this question. So one, it can help it sort of think
about or collect from its knowledge base, other questions that would typically
be associated with that question. And when it's fine in
these other questions, there are likely to be other questions
that are relevant to that question will provide additional details or
context to answer the question. And then when we go and give answers to all of those
individual sort of sub questions, it's then going to have additional context
to give us a better overall answer. And it also helps us as the users
to structure our thinking. Because when we go and ask and
it begins breaking questions down, it'll help us sort of realize what
are additional dimensions to the problems. So let's take a look at this in practice. So here I am, I'm saying, when you're
asked a question, follow these rules. Generate a number of additional questions
that would help more accurately answer the question. Combine the answers to the individual
questions to produce the final answer to the overall question. And ChatGPT in this case says, sure, I can
do that just let me know what the question is and I will generate additional answers. So let's see what we can start with. Well, I thought of a question that I
have no way of easily answering and I don't know a whole lot about it. So I figure by asking
a question that sort of, I'm guaranteed probably to ask
a question that's too generic and doesn't have enough information,
this will be helpful to me. And so I asked ChatGPT, how many
mosquitoes probably live in my front yard? I don't know the answer to that question. I didn't think too hard about it,
but I'm kind of interested. What is the answer to this? How would I even figure this out? And so I asked ChatGPT that question. And so here's what it says, well,
it follows our prompt pattern. It follows the cognitive
verifier pattern and it generates a bunch of
additional questions. Let's look at those questions. What is the size of your front yard? Well, obviously that's really important. If I have a bigger yard, I'm likely
to have more mosquitoes probably. It's probably related to
the square footage of my yard. What is the climate like in your area? That's obviously really important. If I live in the desert or
if I live at the North Pole, it's unlikely that there
are going to be any mosquitoes. What time of year is it? Another great question. I didn't think about that dimension
to it when I asked the question. But I'm probably asking the question when
I'm in the spring or summer, when there's a lot of mosquitoes floating around
in my yard and it's driving me nuts. But I'm not thinking about, I need to
include time in my question as well. Are there any bodies of water or standing
water sources in your front yard or nearby? And obviously, that's an important one
because mosquitoes breed in water. And I actually knew that, but I didn't include that information
in my original question. And then are there any plants or vegetation in your front yard
that mosquitoes are attracted to? That's another important one. So we see now it's taken my original
question and it's broken it down into a bunch of sub questions that are going to
help it answer the original question. This is really useful and
I've also learned something. Now to answer this,
I'm just going to go back to it. If you'll remember, it had a series
of questions one through five. I'm just going to go now and
answer with one about 2,500 square feet. I honestly don't know, but I'm just sort of guessing my yard
is not that big in the front yard. This is probably actually an overestimate
of the size of my front yard. I live in the southeastern United States. It's April,
I'm not telling it seasons or things. I'm just going to give it the month,
which probably isn't specific enough. There's probably a difference
between the date and different times within April
even within where I live. Then I tell it no, there's no standing
bodies of water in my front yard. And yes, there are plants that
likely mosquitoes would breed in. And so then it goes and says,
based on the information provided, here's an estimate of how many mosquitoes
could be living in your front yard. And it gives me a number of things, it says with a front yard
size of 2,500 square feet. According to some estimates, a single female mosquito can
lay up to 300 eggs at a time. But it says another thing and
it kind of goes on to hedge its bets, which is a good thing, right? It says in general, a typical mosquito
population density in an area with standing water sources can range from
10 to 100 mosquitoes per square meter. However, since there are no standing
water sources in your yard or nearby, the density could be lower. And then it goes on to say it's
difficult to provide a precise estimate. However, it's possible that there could
be anywhere from a few dozen to a few 100 mosquitoes in your yard, depending
on various factors such as a species, climate and the presence of vegetation. That's pretty good. The fact that it's gotten this down
to a few dozen to a few 100 that's a tighter range than I
would have expected. And also just sort of sets my expectation. In the middle of summer when
I go out in my front yard, I would swear it was in the thousands. I'm absolutely dying as I'm
eating alive my mosquitoes. And so I typically think
it's a much higher number. But based on this, it may be wrong,
it may be erroneous, but it actually gave me some
fairly good reasoning. One of the things that's also nice about
this is I'm less skeptical of its answer being completely wrong because it asked me
a bunch of reasonable questions to derive its answer. It also gave me a bunch of facts which I
could go and follow up on like how many eggs of female mosquito will lay, the
density of mosquitoes in areas with water. But it gave me a kind of
a pretty good answer and it gave me a bunch of questions that
I could ask to improve that answer. Now I'm going to go back,
I'm going to actually qualify that. I said it gave me a pretty good answer. But the truth is I have no idea. I'm not an expert on this topic. And as with anything that we get out of,
one of the large language models, I would highly encourage
you to verify the output. But I think this is interesting because
at least at the very minimum it helped me learn about through this question what
might influence the number of mosquitoes in my yard. And give me things that I could go and
follow up on and verify, see if they are correct. If these facts hold water. See if these questions really are useful,
but they certainly look like valid and
important questions. What is the size of your front yard? I'm not sure that I even
need to go research that, a larger yard is likely
to have more mosquitoes. What is the climate like in your yard? I know that that matters. What time of year is it? I know that that also matters
from personal experience. Are there any bodies of standing water
sources in your front yard or nearby? I know that matters. That sort of general knowledge in
the Southeastern United States. And are there any plants or vegetation in your front yard
the mosquitoes are attracted to? And I actually happen to know that
that is also an important factor. So it's actually giving me
a bunch of really good questions. It's given me some facts related to those
questions which I would have to go verify and I don't know as much about, but
it is a really helpful tool for automatically taking a question,
breaking it down. I can see sort of its reasoning about how
it's going about and thinking about this, it improves my reasoning about thinking
about how I might answer this question. And in many cases, what we'll see is
having the large language model break down the question will help it
give a better answer to us so that we'll get something
that's more accurate.